Bitcoin's Problem

The Bitcoin network is limited; it is only able to handle up to 80 transactions per second, or 6.9 million transactions per day.

Another problem with Bitcoin is that the current block size limits and caps the transaction rate even more...

Bitcoin's block size limit caps the network at only 463 transactions/minute, or ~ transactions/second.

This means Bitcoin is not a viable micro-currency, long-term. It's technical limitations keep bitcoin from processing more than 500 transactions/minute.

This is important to understand because soon, Bitcoin's miners will not be able to make enough money to sustain their mining costs at the currently low transaction fees...

Bitcoin miners are not stupid, "eventually", miners will be forced to either:

(1) Increase their fees to cover their mining gear and electricity costs, or

(2) Stop mining altogether.

If miners: (1) increase their transaction fees, the network will lose its usefulness as a micro-currency.

If Bitcoin's miners: (2) stop mining altogether, the network becomes increasingly unsecure, and is vulnerable to a 51% attack.

So Bitcoin is really not a good safe-haven for keeping large sums of money, long-term.

Bitcoin's security is highly dependent upon its miners.

This leaves it with unknown and unquantifiable risks.

In order to maintain security, mining costs must perpetually increase to lower the risk of a 51% attack.

This risk will never go away.

Therefore the costs to prevent this attack will never go away.

This forever increased need for mining is inefficient and unsustainable to a network's security long-term.

For these reasons, Bitcoin will become inefficient and unsustainable.

It will "eventually" have to come to an end.

Peercoin's Solution

1. Peercoin will never have a transaction volume problem.

2. Your savings mints a guaranteed 1% per year.

3. Fixed transaction fees are destroyed; preventing inflation.

4. Better for the environment.

Peercoin's transaction fee is fixed at 0.01 PPC per transaction.

In other words, the transaction fee is fixed at 1% of a 1 PPCoin, (not 1% of the total transaction).

Because the fixed transaction fee scales with the price, it serves to prevent the network from experiencing transaction volume that is too large to handle.

This helps prevent high-frequency trading and brings stability and balance to the transaction volume.

The fee also prevents inflation...

This is because the fee does not go to miners (unlike Bitcoin). Instead, the fee gets destroyed and decreases the money supply.

Since the fee is destroyed by the network it causes deflation of the currency. This offsets the ~1% inflation per year minted by the PoS process.

Peercoin's security is not solely based on "proof-of-work" (PoW) miners. Additional security comes from the users' savings in "proof-of-stake" (PoS) minting.

All Peercoin needs for long-term PoS security is enough power to run the client... Basically, just a standard home computer.

So Peercoin is better for the environment because PoS does not need any mining gear or perpetual costs to maintain the network security. Peercoin is a "greener" crypto.

Ultimately, this means the Peercoin network is a better safe-haven for keeping large sums of money, "long-term".

A classic example of:

The Tortoise [PPC]

vs.

The Hare [BTC]


Thank You


Special thanks to developer Sunny King for all your hard work, insight, and devotion to improving upon Bitcoin.

"Prove all things hold fast to that which is good."
